# Aim: To study and implement Constructors and Destructors
# Software Required:
Visual Studio
# Theory:
In C++, constructors are special methods that are automatically called whenever an object of a class is created. The constructor in C++ has the same name as the class or structure.

<ins>Types of Constructors in C++</ins>:

Constructors can be classified based on the situations they are being used in. There are 4 types of constructors in C++:

1. Default Constructor
2. Parameterized Constructor
3. Copy Constructor

1. <ins>Default Constructor</ins>:
A default constructor is automatically generated by the compiler if the programmer does not define one. This constructor doesn't take any argument as it is parameter less and initializes object members using default values. It is also called a zero-argument constructor. However, the default constructor is not generated by the compiler if the programmer has explicitly defined a constructor.

2. <ins> Parameterized Constructor</ins>:
Parameterized constructor allow us to pass arguments to constructors. Typically, these arguments help initialize an object's members. To create a parameterized constructor, simply add parameters to it the way you would to any other function. When you define the constructor’s body, use the parameters to initialize the object's members.

3. <ins> Copy Constructor</ins>:
A copy constructor is a member function that initializes an object using another object of the same class. Copy constructor takes a reference to an object of the same class as an argument.

Characteristics of Constructors:

+ The name of the constructor is the same as its class name.
+ Constructors are mostly declared as public member of the class though they can be declared as private.
+ Constructors do not return values, hence they do not have a return type.
+ A constructor gets called automatically when we create the object of the class.
+ Multiple constructors can be declared in a single class (it is even recommended - Rule Of Three, The Rule of Five).
+ In case of multiple constructors, the one with matching function signature will be called.

<ins>Destructors</ins>:
A destructor is a special member function of a class that is executed whenever an object of it's class goes out of scope or whenever the delete expression is applied to a pointer to the object of that class. A destructor will have exact same name as the class prefixed with a tilde (~) and it can neither return a value nor can it take any parameters. Destructor can be very useful for releasing resources before coming out of the program like closing files, releasing memories etc.

# Implementation:
The concepts of Constructor and Destructor are demonstrated by the following codes,
+ Constructor of Student info
+ Vehicle info using Constructor(outside the class)
+ volume using parrameterized constructor
+ copy constructor
+ Destructor using counters

# Algorithms:

Algorithm: Student Details using Constructor

1. Start
2. Define a class `Student` with private data members:
    `rollno` (integer)
    `name[50]` (character array)
    `fee` (double)
3. Define a constructor `Student()` that:
   1. Displays "Enter student details".
   2. Reads `rollno`.
   3. Reads `name`.
   4. Reads `fee`.
4. Define a member function `display()` that:
    Prints `rollno`, `name`, and `fee`.
5. In `main()`:
   1. Create an object `s1` of class `Student`.
   2. Constructor automatically takes input for student details.
   3. Call `s1.display()` to show entered details.
6. End

Algorithm: Vehicle Details using Constructor

1. Start
2. Define a class `Vehicles` with private data members:
    `yr` (integer)
    `brand[50]` (character array)
     `type[50]` (character array)
    `cost` (double)
3. Define a constructor `Vehicles()` that:
   1. Displays "Enter the Brand" and reads `brand`.
   2. Displays "Enter the Type of Vehicle" and reads `type`.
   3. Displays "Enter the year of manufacture" and reads `yr`.
   4. Displays "Enter the cost of the Vehicle" and reads `cost`.
4. Define a member function `display()` that:
   Prints `brand`, `type`, and `cost` of the vehicle.
5. In `main()`:
   1. Create an object `v1` of class `Vehicles`.
   2. Constructor is called automatically to input vehicle details.
   3. Call `v1.display()` to display the details entered.
6. End

Algorithm: Find Volume using Parameterized Constructor

1. Start
2. Define a class `volume` with:
    Private data members: `x`, `y`, `z` (integers), `vol` (double).
     Public members:
     Parameterized constructor `volume(int l, int b, int h)`

        Calculates `vol = l * b * h`.
       Function `display()`
        Prints `vol`.
3. In `main()` function:
   1. Declare integers `a, b, c`.
   2. Ask the user to *"Enter the dimensions"* and take input for `a, b, c`.
   3. Create an object `v1` of class `volume` and pass `(a, b, c)` to the      constructor.
   4. Call `v1.display()` to print the volume.
4. End

-

Algorithm: Copy Constructor Example with Student Grade

1. Start
2. Define a class `Student` with:
Private data members:
      `Rollnum` (not used in this example).
      `math_grade`, `cpp_grade`, `EDC_grade`, `DCLD_grade` (characters)
     Public members:
     1. **Parameterized Constructor `Student(char m, char c, char e, char d)
         Assigns grades (`m`, `c`, `e`, `d`) to respective subjects.
     3. Copy Constructor `Student(const Student &s)`
         Copies all subject grades from an existing `Student` object `s`.
     4. Function `display()`
         Prints all the subject grades of the student.
3. In `main()` function:
   1. Create object `s1` using parameterized constructor with grades `'A', 'B', 'A', 'C'`.
   2. Print original grades by calling `s1.display()`.
   3. Create another object `s2` using copy constructor (`s2 = s1`).
   4. Print copied grades by calling `s2.display()`.
4. End


Algorithm: Demonstrating Destructor with Static Counter

1. Start
2. Define a class `Destruct` with:
   Static data member `count` (to keep track of number of active objects).
     Constructor:
     Increment `count` when a new object is created.
     Print: *"Object created. Total objects: <count>"*.
    Destructor:
      Decrement `count` when an object is destroyed.
       Print: "Object destroyed. Remaining objects: <count>".
3. Initialize static variable `count = 0`.
4. In `main()` function:
    Create four objects: `a1, b1, c1, s1`.
    Constructor is called for each, updating and displaying the object count.
5. At the end of `main()`:
    When program scope ends, destructors are called automatically.
    Each destructor decreases the object count and displays the message.
6. End

# Conclusion:
The above codes demonstrates the use of constructors and destructors in C++.

  
